With the batch job configured,
I can now start to implement the full processing of
patient data from an input file, through a processor,
and into a database.
Let's begin by defining the input that will be used.
Probably one of the most common ways to input data
into a batch job is through a file.
This input is usually a flat structure with each line representing a record
and each field in the record separated by a delimiter.
In our implementation,
I'll be using a file where fields in a record are delimited by commas.
Other formats you may come across include tab
delimited fields or fixed width fields.
An input file may or may not include a header row.
For the demo, I've included a header row,
which I can easily ignore using Spring Batch.
Remember that your input file is, in a sense,
a contract between your batch processor and the provider of the data.
Given this,
I cannot stress how important it is to fully
understand the requirements for this file.
Here are some key things to consider when structuring your input file.
First,
make sure that the provider and consumer understand which fields
are required and which fields are optional.
Next, make sure the provider and consumer agree on how errors will be handled.
Should an error stop the processing of a file?
Should failed records be emailed to the provider?
Will a total count of records be given?
Make sure you agree on the type of data that will be passed in each record.
For example,
if you're expecting a timestamp and the provider only gives you the month,
day, and year, it could result in invalid data for time-based calculations.
Finally,
assure you agree on the process for archiving the
file after processing is complete.
Now let's look at the structure for the demo input.
I'm showing you the new PatientRecord class I'll be creating as it
contains the fields that will be found in the input file.
A little later in this section,
I'll be using an item reader to map data from the input file
into attributes on instances in this class.
Note the fields I'm using for patients include
basic information such as the name, address,
email, phone, and birthdate.
There are a few additional fields including a sourceId and action.
SourceId is a common way to map an input record back to the
original source's unique identifier for the record.
Action is also a common approach to designate what action
batch processing should perform on the record.
In our demo, I'll only be using inserts; however,
you will be supporting a mixture of insertions,
updates, and deletions with your data and a full batch process.
Now let's create the resources we need to support the item reader.
I'll be demonstrating the addition of the PatientRecord
class that will be used by the item reader.
Note that I'll be following Demo 9 found in the DEMOS.
md file in the root project directory.
I'll be demonstrating the creation of a domain object that contains
attributes directly tied to the fields in our input file record.
Let's start by taking a look at the input file.
I've got the project opened, expand the data folder, and open up the test.
csv file.
Note that earlier in the course,
I defined an application property to point to the
data folder as the input directory.
Again, you'll likely configure this to be a folder outside of the project,
and it's only meant for demo purposes.
The file contains a header row with the field labels for each record.
We're simply going to skip this line when we read the file with Spring Batch.
Next,
note that each line represents a single record and that each
field in a record is separated by a comma.
Now let's create the class where data records will be mapped to.
I'm going to close this test file,
and I'm going to expand the domain package of the project.
Here we're going to create a class with the name PatientRecord.
I'll enter in the class name.
First, we want this object to be serializable,
so I'm going to add the interface to the class declaration.
Now I'll drop in the attributes to the class.
I'm going to right-click on the attributes and select
to create the getters and setters.
With the getters and setters created,
the next thing I want to do is create a constructor with no
fields and a constructor with all fields.
Select to generate a constructor, so now I have my empty constructor.
Let's create a full constructor.
And the last step at the bottom of the class is to create a toString method.
Now you could make your life easier and use a
library like Lombok if you wanted to. But for now, this completes the creation of our PatientRecord domain object.